The word “Vidhya" originates from the Sanskrit root
"Vid" In English language, the equivalent term Sanskrit foot
"Education". The word Education itself is a derivative of
Latin term "Educe”, which means to become knowledgeable 
and enlightened. <br>

Education is a process of seeking truth, The method
used in this process is that of garnering information about the 
subjects and objects that a person becomes associated the
and the situations that he comes across. Assimilation of such
information into a person's life confers the light of awareness
and renders him knowledgeable, thus, ushering in a process of
gradual transformation, strengthening his character and
enabling him to excel in every aspect of life.<br>

As the saying goes, "Education confers humility,
humility confers deservedness, deserving one attains
happiness. One can thus, attain the goal of life through the
education. True education endows a man with an integrated
personality having a harmonious synthesis of a sharp brain, a
kind heart and competent hands. He is a beautiful combination
of nobility and ability .Nobility without ability is useless to the
society and ability without nobility is dangerous to it. "Nobility is
a manifestation of the inherent human values like Truth,
Righteousness, Peace, Love and Non-Violence. So, it follows 
that a system which promotes talents leading to ability and
enhances nobility , only can be called true education. It is a 
system that consists of methods of imparting holistic
knowledge about every aspect of human life.” <br>

In today's environment, the need to encourage every
child to strive towards human and academic excellence is
strongly felt. Every parent's dream is to see his/her child
blossom forth as a wise, knowledgeable, self-reliant and
righteous person. Gurukul has come into being with the basic
aim of following this holistic approach towards education and
endeavors to become a center of learning which enables its
students to perceptively manifest their innate excellence and
empower them with ever increasing sharpness of intelligence 
and spiritual intuition, as they mature with age. All those who 
are entrusted with the scared duty of educating the children
shall be diligent and constant in their efforts to help the children
blossom forth as academically sound and emotionally, morally |
and spiritually strong to face the challenges of life. The &
appropriate environment for this purpose is ensured in Gurukul
Campus with the availability of a specially selected, highly
motivated and competent staff and their constant proximity with
the children. 

